>> Erik Reinert: The next thing we're
going to do is we're gonna create
a makefile.
If you've never heard of
a makefile before, like I said,
the makefile is really, in its purest
form, a makefile is meant to make files.
Literally.
As a matter of fact,
in the old school days when you'd
build GCC or other GNU tools,
what's nice about the makefile is
you would say make some binary, but.
And what's cool is that if that file
exists, the makefile won't build it again.
So it has this really neat ability to say,
I'm only gonna make things
that I need to make, right?
However, we want these things
to run all of the time.
So the thing I kind of want you to note is
that we are going to be using a makefile
not to make things, but
to run commands that do things for us.
So we're kind of making our own little
script that makes it easy to work with our
project.
So what I'm going to do first is
I'm going to create a new file.
I'm going to say touch makefile, right?
And then I'm going to open up this file.
Now what we're going to do first is we're
going to add a whole bunch of variables to
the top, right?
And I will explain all of this
really quickly as I add them.
But at the first part,
in the first part of a make file,
you normally have variables of some sort,
right?
So make is its own kind of syntax and
its own kind of like not really language,
but its own way of.
It has its own way of writing
these configuration files.
You might understand what I'm
doing just by looking at it, but
basically I'm telling MAKE that I
have a whole bunch of variables that
I want to use in the commands
that I'm going to be running.
You might look at these and go, wow.
Yeah, that's really nice.
This makes a lot of this a lot easier.
For example,
I have my migration directory now.
Now I don't have to worry about
doing Dash D migrations every time.
It's right there and available to me.
I have my account ID and
my account default region.
And what's nice about that is then
I can form the AWS ECR domain.
I don't even have to worry about
storing it or keeping it anywhere.
It's right there in my makefile,
my git shell.
I want to know the latest version of
the thing that I'm building, the latest
changes So I can actually put that into
a variable and use that as well as I want.
Not only can I just use normal plain text
and use that in this makefile, I can
actually tell make to run a command and
then get the output of that command and
use that as a variable as well,
which makes it really nice.
I'm sure the mind starts ticking
here on how much you could solve and
how much time you could save by just
writing some kind of file like this to
make your life easier.
You'll also see that I
have my build image,
which I will just quickly update so
that it says just the normal one.
I also have a build tag, and this is
a little bit more complex, but the idea
here is it's saying, hey, if build tag
exists, then use the build tag value.
But if it doesn't exist, then use latest.
This can help a lot.
When you're running commands and you want
default values, you want to just say,
I just want to run this, but
then override it when I need to
versus when I don't need to.
I've got a little bit more of a complex
thing here, which is I needed to
get the host name, just the host name,
from the postgres URL that we're using.
I can use some bash foo to do that, but
what's even nicer is I can use that bash
foo and
then put it into an environment variable.
Now I can run commands like Dockerize
to check and connect to the host and
see if it's running before I
actually run my migrations.
Then we've got the same thing here with
the Dockerize URL, where then I say, okay,
well, if I've got the host,
if the host is defined, then do that 5432.
Otherwise use local host 5432.
What's nice about this is
now it means that I can even
target my database as
a parameter when I want.
So if I'm doing local development and I
just want to connect to my local database,
that'll work out of the box.
But say I want to actually
have Dockerize or
something else connect to something
remote, I can use the exact same command,
but then I can just override
the dockerize URL with something else.
You'll see a little bit
more of that in a moment.
The next thing we're going to do is we're
going to add what are called targets.
These are the actual commands or
the sub commands that we want to be
able to do with makefile right now.
If I do make and
I just do build, you'll see.
Well, there's no rule to do that.
Like you don't have any
ability to do that.
But that's what I want.
I want to do something like make build and
that actually run, go build, blah,
blah, blah, blah, blah.
So how do we do that?
Well, what I'll do is I'll
go to the make file and
then underneath this I will just add
a new line and I will say build.
This is where I'm adding my targets.
What I'm doing is I'm telling make, hey,
there is a target or whatever rule,
whatever you want to call it,
called build.
With build,
I want you to run this command.
If I just save this with everything
we have and then I do make build.
There we go.
I now just built my application.
What's cool is because the make file
has what's called the default goal set,
I can also run make, and
it'll run the exact same command, right?
So this is how we could start using
make to make our lives easier, right?
So that's what we're going to do.
So I'm going to delete that file really
quickly, I'm going to open up and
we're going to add some more targets.
So what are some things, like if you
guys could tell me really quickly,
what are some things that we did in
the repo that are command based?
>> Speaker 3: Pushing your image.
>> Erik Reinert: Pushing your image.
Sure.
Okay, what else?
There's one before pushing
that you have to do.
>> Speaker 3: Building.
>> Erik Reinert: Building.
Yep, building it as well.
Yep.
>> Speaker 2: Running the migration.
>> Erik Reinert: Yep, yep.
Running the migration.
Yep.
Everything you just said, we have
to remember the commands of, right?
So my rule of thumb that I like to do
with a makefile is anything you run that
you're gonna run again,
put it in the makefile, make it so
that it's easy to remember and
get back to, right?
So one of you said build image.
So what we're gonna do is we
are going to do build image.
And then what I'm gonna do is just because
I wanna make sure it's consistent,
we're just gonna do this latest.
Now if I have, remember, buildX,
build platform, build image.
We're using our actual value now in the
command, so that if I do make build image.
There we go.
Now I don't have to remember
the entire command.
I could just use make for pretty much
everything that I'm going to be doing.
We don't actually have to wait for that.
Okay, so let's go ahead and
Add the rest of the stuff.
So we've got build image.
We've got even our build
image login command, right?
Like that sucked to have to do, right.
Why do that twice?
Put that in there.
We've got buildimage push, right?
So why even put that in there, right?
No need to do that.
As a matter of fact, I'm sorry.
This should be build tag.
My bad.
Why should this be build tag?
Can anyone tell me, instead of latest, why
would I use the build tag variable here?
>> Speaker 3: Might not always be latest.
>> Erik Reinert: Exactly.
And if it is, or if we want to use latest,
we can just use the default
value of build tag.
So if you look at build tag at the top,
it has that weird if statement.
And again, like I said, if the environment
variable build tag is set,
then it will use that, but if it's not,
it will use the latest value.
So because I'd rather it do that be
dynamic instead of me have to do it
manually, I'm just going to tell it to
use the build tag there as well, right?
Can anyone tell me what
this means right here?
Why is build image log in here?
Yep?
>> Speaker 3: This say,
[LAUGH] the make file.
If that one is already done or
hasn't changed, is older, then you don't.
Have to do it again.
>> Erik Reinert: Yeah, exactly.
So it's basically like a prerequisite.
It'll run that command first and
say, okay,
is there anything we need
to do to build image login?
Okay, cool.
We don't need to do that.
Okay, now we'll do build image push.
So it's a way to even sequence.
So if I really wanted to, I could say
like, build image login, Build image and
then build image push.
And then if I ran that command,
it would do all of those things at once.
So I only need to do that.
So if you have like a series of commands
that you're running or you know,
in a specific order and you want to
make sure that order is consistent,
you can add the other targets after
the semicolon or after the colon, and
it will run that one and
then run the next one, and
it'll run the next one and then it'll
finally run the one that you want.
And so because, you know, we're only
pushing to ecr, it makes sense to make
sure that we log in every time to make
sure that it's a successful push.
Okay, so we've got push, we've got pull.
Right?
That's another one.
Like, even though it's like a simple
symbol command, it's still worth doing.
Then we got a big one.
I'm going to go into this one
a little bit more into detail, but
this is a bit of a spoiler.
Can anyone tell me by looking at the code
what is going on with this command?
>> Speaker 3: It's
connecting to the database.
Running migrations.
>> Erik Reinert: Yep, exactly.
It's literally doing that.
It's just doing it in the docker file.
We want reproducibility,
which means that maybe Goose won't
always be in my dev environment, or
maybe Goose won't always just be
readily available in CI, for example.
It actually makes a lot more sense
to run migrations in the container.
Why not?
We can put the migration in the container,
we can put the installer in the container,
and then we can literally even connect to
the same database in the container
if we want to as well.
So, yeah, it can be very valuable to
rerun containers when we need to.
Again, that's exactly
what we're doing here.
We're basically saying, hey,
we want to use the image itself to
run migrations for where we want to.
This is more of a complex example of
when this can be really valuable,
because now I can run migrations
locally very quickly.
We're going to add a build
promote command and
then the last couple of things
we're going to add are just up or,
sorry, down up, which again,
you can see up runs down,
and then we'll add normal
migration commands.
So if we're running the migration outside
of the container, and if we're running
the migration inside of the container,
that's a little bit of a spoiler for
the CICD work we're going to be
adding in the next short moment.
And then we will add run,
which just runs build or
start, which just runs build and
then runs our goals.
Okay, cool.
So I'm gonna save this
command really quickly.
And then, what I want to do is,
I want to make sure everything's working.
So I'm going to run make.
I'm going to run make Build.
I'm going to run make.
Build image.
Give this a second.
Make Down.
Make Up.
Make.
Start.
Cool.
Make Migrate.
Status.
Make, migrate-validate.
Oops, see how much faster that is,
[LAUGH] than having to
remember all those commands over and
over and over again.
Think about how much more productive your
developers are just by simply adding that
one file.
You just became more productive.
Where else could we use a makefile
that we may need to add in the future?
Like, where else could we run it?
>> Speaker 3: GitHub actions.
>> Erik Reinert: Exactly right.
How many of you have written
GitHub Actions or other CI pipelines and
stuff and then had to be like, okay, let's
copy these commands and put them in here.
You have consistency now.
You can literally run the exact same
commands that you do to build an image
locally as you do in CI.
So there's no longer a confusion of like,
well,
how's it running in CI versus
how's it running locally?
You literally just run
the exact same commands and
it works right out of the box.
So that's another big reason why I would
use something what's called a task runner.
Now makefile isn't really a task runner or
there's nerds on the Internet who will
argue about it, but they're really called
task runners at the end of the day.
There's another one out there
that I really love called Just,
which is a one I'm a big fan of.
There's tons of them out there,
so you don't have to use make.
If somebody's out there like,
why don't you use this versus that?
Or whatever.
It's up to you, man.
Make is pretty much on every
Linux based operating system.
So it just makes it easier to use Make.
But if you don't like make,
don't use make.
All good, don't worry about it.